---
title: "LoneNeuron: a Highly-effective Feature-domain Neural Trojan using Invisible and Polymorphic Watermarks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/ccs2022
excerpt:
date: 2022-11-08
venue: 'ACM CCS 2022'
paperurl:
citation:
---
<p align='right'>CCS 2022</p>
***Abstract:*** The wide adoption of deep neural networks (DNNs) in real-world
applications raises increasing security concerns. Neural Trojans em-
bedded in pre-trained neural networks are a harmful attack against
the DNN model supply chain. They generate false outputs when
certain stealthy triggers appear in the inputs. While data-poisoning
attacks have been well studied in the literature, code-poisoning and
model-poisoning backdoors only start to attract attention until re-
cently. We present a novel model-poisoning neural Trojan, namely
LoneNeuron, which responds to feature-domain patterns that trans-
form into invisible, sample-specific, and polymorphic pixel-domain
watermarks. With high attack specificity, LoneNeuron achieves
a 100% attack success rate, while not affecting the main task per-
formance. With LoneNeuron’s unique watermark polymorphism
property, the same feature-domain trigger is resolved to multiple
watermarks in the pixel domain, which further improves watermark
randomness, stealthiness, and resistance against Trojan detection.
Extensive experiments show that LoneNeuron could escape state-
of-the-art Trojan detectors. LoneNeuron is also the first effective
backdoor attack against vision transformers (ViTs).

***Resource:*** [PDF](http://liuzey.github.io/files/liu2022ccs.pdf), [SLIDES](http://liuzey.github.io/files/LoneNeuron.pptx), [HTML](https://doi.org/10.1145/3548606.3560678)

***For Reference:*** Liu Z, Li F, Li Z, et al. LoneNeuron: a Highly-Effective Feature-Domain Neural Trojan Using Invisible and Polymorphic Watermarks[C]//Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. 2022: 2129-2143.
