---
title: "Hide and Seek: on the Stealthiness of Attacks against Deep Learning Systems"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/002-esorics
excerpt: 
date: 2022-9-26
venue: 'ESORICS 2022'
paperurl:
citation:
---
**Zeyan Liu**, Fengjun Li, Jingqiang Lin, Zhu Li, and Bo Luo. In ESORICS 2022.

***Abstract:*** With the growing popularity of artificial intelligence (AI)
and machine learning (ML), a wide spectrum of attacks against deep
learning (DL) models have been proposed in the literature. Both the eva-
sion attacks and the poisoning attacks attempt to utilize adversarially
altered samples to fool the victim model to misclassify the adversarial
sample. While such attacks claim to be or are expected to be stealthy,
i.e., imperceptible to human eyes, such claims are rarely evaluated. In
this paper, we present the first large-scale study on the stealthiness of
adversarial samples used in the attacks against deep learning. We have
implemented 20 representative adversarial ML attacks on six popular
benchmarking datasets. We evaluate the stealthiness of the attack sam-
ples using two complementary approaches: (1) a numerical study that
adopts 24 metrics for image similarity or quality assessment; and (2) a
user study of 3 sets of questionnaires that has collected 30,000+ anno-
tations from 1,500+ responses. Our results show that the majority of
the existing attacks introduce non-negligible perturbations that are not
stealthy to human eyes. We further analyze the factors that contribute to
attack stealthiness. We examine the correlation between the numerical
analysis and the user studies, and demonstrate that some image quality
metrics may provide useful guidance in attack designs, while there is still
a significant gap between assessed image quality and visual stealthiness
of attacks.

***Resource:*** [PDF](http://liuzey.github.io/files/liu22esorics.pdf), [SLIDES](http://liuzey.github.io/files/HideAndSeek.pptx), [HTML](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-17143-7_17)

***For Reference:*** Liu Z, Li F, Lin J, et al. Hide and Seek: On the Stealthiness of Attacks Against Deep Learning Systems\[C\]//Computer Security–ESORICS 2022: 27th European Symposium on Research in Computer Security, Copenhagen, Denmark, September 26–30, 2022, Proceedings, Part III. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2022: 343-363.
